r2-log.md, before:

# 100DaysOfCode Log - Round 2 - Mark Krake (@metas-mk)

The log of my 2nd Round of #100DaysOfCode challenge. Started on [July 19, Friday, 2019].

## Log
In my first life I was a COBOl and Mainframe Software Developer. Being a Product Owner and Requirements engineer in the last decade, I did not code anymore and found out that I was missing it like hell. I made a plan to get back into coding frequently and am now on a mission learning JavaScript and ReactJS. I started my personal #100DaysOfCode challenge on March 24th 2019 but only logged my daily progress via Twitter (@markkrake). I'm starting the 2nd round an will log my progress here.

### R2D0 - July 19th, 2019
- Setup my git repository to log my 2nd round progress of my #100DaysOfCode challenge

### R2D1 - July 20th, 2019
#### How to Setup ESLint for my project in VSCode?
- ```cd``` into your  ```coding-repository```
- ```npm init -y```
- ```npm install -D eslint eslint-config-standard eslint-plugin-import eslint-plugin-node eslint-plugin-promise eslint-plugin-standard```
- create ```.estlintrc.js``` with ```module.exports = {"extends":"standard"};
- In VSCode make sure that ESLint is installed, id not then install it and restart VSCode

#### How to push your new local project to a GitHub Reporitory
- I started a new git project locally and decided to also push this to GitHub to allow to track my progress on that too. Here is how I did this https://help.github.com/en/articles/adding-an-existing-project-to-github-using-the-command-line

#### ReactJS learning and coding
- Learning JSX in theory and practical coding. Started with building components.

### R2D2 - July 21st, 2019
#### Quick styling for free - Semantic UI
- checked out Sematic UI https://semantic-ui.com/
- a Free and Open Source development development framework that helps create beautiful, responsive layouts using human-friendly HTML
- just copied the semantic.min.css link from https://cdnjs.com/libraries/semantic-ui and added to index.html as stylesheet
- Using it for my component styling when lerning ReactJS

#### First ReactJS Component with a Naive Approach
- Creating a ReactJS component for comments with a naive approach (all comments in 1 JSX div)

#### Faker.js
- Using Faker.js to generate massive amounts of realistic fake data in Node.js and the browser during the development phase of my project (https://github.com/marak/Faker.js/).
- ```npm install --save faker```

#### Having issues starting local webserver
- After install of Faker.js the local websever did not want to start anymore. I deleted the node_modules folder of my project and did a fresh ```npm install```. After that used ```npm start``` to try again, and worked.

### R2D3 - July 22nd, 2019
#### new git command
- first time used ```git commit --amend```
  - allows you to adjust the last commit message directly via editor 

#### Deduplicating JSX content, component nesting
- refactoring JSX content and extracting to an own component ```CommentDetails.js```
- coding convention: Components are written with UpperCamelCase
- joined component with main App via ```export default``` and ```import```
- using the component as JSX tag ``` ``` in render method of the main App

#### Props in a nutshell: Using react props system
- component hierarchy, parent component, child components or children
- props = properties
- props: system for passing data from a parent component to a child component
  - goal is to customize or configure a child component
  - provide information from parent to child (via JSX property) e.g. ```<CommentDetails date="Today 6:05PM" />```
  - consume infomation in child (via props argument object) e.g. ```{props.date}```

### R2D4 - July 23rd, 2019
#### What is props validation?
- Runtime type checking for React props and similar objects.
- during debugging of metasfresh-webui-frontend I came past an eslint warning ```... is missing in props validation```
  - documentation here https://www.npmjs.com/package/prop-types

#### Component Reuse ReactJS
- component nesting: a component can be shown inside of another
- component reusability: components shall be easily reusable through out an application
- component configuration: a component shall be configurable when it's created

#### Nesting components & props.children
- wrapped the comments component into an approval component via jsx
- used ```props.children``` to consume the nested component

### R2D5 - July 24th, 2019
#### Function based vs. class based components
- function based: good for simple (JSX) content
- class based: good for just about everything else (including event handling)
  - easier code organization
  - can use ```state``` means easier to handle user input
  - understands lifecycle events, means easier to do things when the app first starts

### R2D6 - July 25th, 2019
#### metasfresh webui frontend with ReactJS
- further digging into the metasfresh webui frontend code
- getting a better understanding about how things work after my first week of ReactJS learning
- decided to start the developer documentation of metasfresh webui frontend as part of my learning time, I'm thinking about using JSDocs or Gatsby for this

#### ReactJS: metasfresh webui with Storybook
- read about Storybook and how is can help developing encapsulated and reusable components
- wrote a story for a small component in metasfresh webui project and tested different configurations in isolation
- the styling is not compoinent based in metasfresh, so the component is not looking good in Storybook runner. I will see how to change this.

### R2D7 - July 26th, 2019
#### new ReactJS Challemge project: seasons
- created a new ReactJS challenge project to learn more about class based components, state and event handling
- adding sematic ui to the project

#### Using Geolocation API
- checked out and used the Geolocation API which is included in most browsers
- documentation can be found here https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Geolocation_API

Commit message:

R2D8 Starting with state in React components

r2-log.md, after:

# 100DaysOfCode Log - Round 2 - Mark Krake (@metas-mk)

The log of my 2nd Round of #100DaysOfCode challenge. Started on [July 19, Friday, 2019].

## Log
In my first life I was a COBOl and Mainframe Software Developer. Being a Product Owner and Requirements engineer in the last decade, I did not code anymore and found out that I was missing it like hell. I made a plan to get back into coding frequently and am now on a mission learning JavaScript and ReactJS. I started my personal #100DaysOfCode challenge on March 24th 2019 but only logged my daily progress via Twitter (@markkrake). I'm starting the 2nd round an will log my progress here.

### R2D0 - July 19th, 2019
- Setup my git repository to log my 2nd round progress of my #100DaysOfCode challenge

### R2D1 - July 20th, 2019
#### How to Setup ESLint for my project in VSCode?
- ```cd``` into your  ```coding-repository```
- ```npm init -y```
- ```npm install -D eslint eslint-config-standard eslint-plugin-import eslint-plugin-node eslint-plugin-promise eslint-plugin-standard```
- create ```.estlintrc.js``` with ```module.exports = {"extends":"standard"};
- In VSCode make sure that ESLint is installed, id not then install it and restart VSCode

#### How to push your new local project to a GitHub Reporitory
- I started a new git project locally and decided to also push this to GitHub to allow to track my progress on that too. Here is how I did this https://help.github.com/en/articles/adding-an-existing-project-to-github-using-the-command-line

#### ReactJS learning and coding
- Learning JSX in theory and practical coding. Started with building components.

### R2D2 - July 21st, 2019
#### Quick styling for free - Semantic UI
- checked out Sematic UI https://semantic-ui.com/
- a Free and Open Source development development framework that helps create beautiful, responsive layouts using human-friendly HTML
- just copied the semantic.min.css link from https://cdnjs.com/libraries/semantic-ui and added to index.html as stylesheet
- Using it for my component styling when lerning ReactJS

#### First ReactJS Component with a Naive Approach
- Creating a ReactJS component for comments with a naive approach (all comments in 1 JSX div)

#### Faker.js
- Using Faker.js to generate massive amounts of realistic fake data in Node.js and the browser during the development phase of my project (https://github.com/marak/Faker.js/).
- ```npm install --save faker```

#### Having issues starting local webserver
- After install of Faker.js the local websever did not want to start anymore. I deleted the node_modules folder of my project and did a fresh ```npm install```. After that used ```npm start``` to try again, and worked.

### R2D3 - July 22nd, 2019
#### new git command
- first time used ```git commit --amend```
  - allows you to adjust the last commit message directly via editor 

#### Deduplicating JSX content, component nesting
- refactoring JSX content and extracting to an own component ```CommentDetails.js```
- coding convention: Components are written with UpperCamelCase
- joined component with main App via ```export default``` and ```import```
- using the component as JSX tag ``` ``` in render method of the main App

#### Props in a nutshell: Using react props system
- component hierarchy, parent component, child components or children
- props = properties
- props: system for passing data from a parent component to a child component
  - goal is to customize or configure a child component
  - provide information from parent to child (via JSX property) e.g. ```<CommentDetails date="Today 6:05PM" />```
  - consume infomation in child (via props argument object) e.g. ```{props.date}```

### R2D4 - July 23rd, 2019
#### What is props validation?
- Runtime type checking for React props and similar objects.
- during debugging of metasfresh-webui-frontend I came past an eslint warning ```... is missing in props validation```
  - documentation here https://www.npmjs.com/package/prop-types

#### Component Reuse ReactJS
- component nesting: a component can be shown inside of another
- component reusability: components shall be easily reusable through out an application
- component configuration: a component shall be configurable when it's created

#### Nesting components & props.children
- wrapped the comments component into an approval component via jsx
- used ```props.children``` to consume the nested component

### R2D5 - July 24th, 2019
#### Function based vs. class based components
- function based: good for simple (JSX) content
- class based: good for just about everything else (including event handling)
  - easier code organization
  - can use ```state``` means easier to handle user input
  - understands lifecycle events, means easier to do things when the app first starts

### R2D6 - July 25th, 2019
#### metasfresh webui frontend with ReactJS
- further digging into the metasfresh webui frontend code
- getting a better understanding about how things work after my first week of ReactJS learning
- decided to start the developer documentation of metasfresh webui frontend as part of my learning time, I'm thinking about using JSDocs or Gatsby for this

#### ReactJS: metasfresh webui with Storybook
- read about Storybook and how is can help developing encapsulated and reusable components
- wrote a story for a small component in metasfresh webui project and tested different configurations in isolation
- the styling is not compoinent based in metasfresh, so the component is not looking good in Storybook runner. I will see how to change this.

### R2D7 - July 26th, 2019
#### new ReactJS Challenge project: seasons
- created a new ReactJS challenge project to learn more about class based components, state and event handling
- adding sematic ui to the project

#### Using Geolocation API
- checked out and used the Geolocation API which is included in most browsers
- documentation can be found here https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Geolocation_API

### R2D8 - July 27th, 2019
#### Refactoring function based to class based component
- Rules of class base components
  - must be a javascript class
  - must extend subclass React.Component
  -  muste define a ```render``` method that returns some amount of jsx

#### State in React Components
- Rules of State
  - only usable with class components (can be used with functional components using the ```hooks``` system)
  - don't confuse props with state
  - ```State``` is a javascipt object that contains data relevant to a component
  - updating ```state``` on a component causes the component to (almost) instantly rerender
  - ```State``` must be initialized when a component is created
